docs/Folder Structure.md, before:

# Velox Code Folder Explanations

This document explains the purpose of each folder in the repository.

## [src](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src)

This folder contains the source code for the application.

### [src/application](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/application)

This folder contains the application layer.

### [src/domain](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/domain)

This folder contains the domain layer.

### [src/infrastructure](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/infrastructure)

This folder contains the infrastructure layer.

### [src/presentation](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/presentation)

This folder contains the presentation layer.

## [tests](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/tests)

This folder contains the test code for the application, including the BDD tests.

## [migrations](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/migrations)

This folder contains the database migrations.

## [docker](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/docker)

This folder contains the configurations for the containers spun up by `docker-compose`.

Commit message:

liamwh/vel-36-fix-reference-to-infrastructure-layer

docs/Folder Structure.md, after:

# Velox: Folder Explanations

This document explains the purpose of each folder in the repository.

## [src](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src)

This folder contains the source code for the application.

### [src/application](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/application)

This folder contains the application layer.

### [src/domain](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/domain)

This folder contains the domain layer.

### [src/presentation](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/src/presentation)

This folder contains the presentation layer, containing things like handlers, view models, the GraphQL server and the Axum web server.

## [tests](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/tests)

This folder contains the [integration tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/testing/integration_testing.html) for the application, such as the BDD tests.

[Unit tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/testing/unit_testing.html) are found in the tests module found in the same file as the things they're testing.

## [migrations](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/migrations)

This folder contains the database migrations.

## [docker](https://github.com/liamwh/velox/tree/main/docker)

This folder contains the configurations for the containers spun up by `docker-compose`.
